docs/api.md, before:

connect(1) -- node server runner
========================================

## Synopsis

    connect [-H|--host ADDR] [-p|--port NUM]
            [-D|--daemonize] [-I|--include PATH]
            [-E|--env NAME] [-e|--eval CODE] [-C|--chdir PATH]
            [-c|--config PATH] [-P|--pidfile PATH]
            [-l|--logfile PATH] [-u|--user ID|NAME] [-g|--group ID|NAME]
            [-v|--verbose] [-K|--no-color] [-h|--help]
            start|stop|restart|status [PATH]

## Description

Connect is a duel purpose library, aiding in both rapid development, and deployment of node servers. Connect "middleware" can be stacked to create a robust application within minutes. The _connect_ executable supports launching of both regular `net.Server`, and `connect.Server` instances.
 
The connect executable supplies _init.d_ friendly _start_, _stop_, and _restart_ commands, and accept a direct path to the module meant to be run, otherwise defaults to trying both _app.js_ and _server.js_ in the current working directory.

## Executable Options

    -H, --host ADDR      Host address, defaults to INADDR_ANY
    -p, --port NUM       Port number, defaults to 3000
    -D, --daemonize      Daemonize the server process
    -I, --include PATH   Unshift the given path to require.paths
    -E, --env NAME       Set environment, defaults to "development"
    -e, --eval CODE      Evaluate the given string
    -C, --chdir PATH     Change to the given path
    -c, --config PATH    Load configuration module
    -P, --pidfile PATH   PID file, defaults to pids/connect.pid
    -l, --logfile PATH   Log file, defaults to logs/connect.log
    -u, --user ID|NAME   Change user with setuid()
    -g, --group ID|NAME  Change group with setgid()
    -v, --verbose        Display verbose output
    -K, --no-color       Suppress colored terminal output
    -h, --help           Display help information

## Middleware

Connect middleware is divided into two concepts. First we have _filters_ which perform an action and allow lower middleware to respond to the request, secondly we have _providers_ which are conceptual "end-points", responding to the request without continuing down the stack.


## Middleware Usage

Below is an example which shows usage of the _log_ filter bundled with Connect, as well as the _static_ provider.

The keys `filter` and `provider` are used only as short-cuts to bundled middleware, to utilize a custom module we can assign a module's exports to the `module` key.

    module.exports = require('./lib/connect').createServer([
        { filter: 'log' },
        { module: require('path/to/custom/middleware') },
        { provider: 'static', root: __dirname + '/public' }
    ]);

As shown above the module exports a `connect.Server` and does not call the `listen()` method directly. This allows other modules to "mount" this app, as well as allowing the _connect_ executable to control how the server is run.
 
If you prefer not to use _connect_, you can simply create a script executable by _node_, `require()` the app, then invoke `listen()`.

    #!/usr/bin/env node
    require('./app').listen();

## Middleware Authoring

Middleware is essentially just an object, responding to a `handle()` method, the example below illustrates how simple it is to create, and utilize custom middleware.
 
First we define the `handle()` method, which accepts three arguments, _req_, _res_, and _next_. 

    var helloWorld = {
        handle: function(req, res, next){
            res.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type: 'text/plain' });
            res.end('Hello World');
        }
    };

    require('connect').createServer([
        { module: helloWorld }
    ]);
    
The `next()` function passes control to the next middleware layer in the stack, and may optionally be passed an instanceof `Error`, at which time only `handleError()` methods may respond.
 
If you wish to pass an exception down the stack, you can invoke `next()` like below:
 
     if (someRequirementIsNotMet) {
         next(new Error('my requirement was not met!'));
     }

We can take this example further by "exporting" the `handle()` method, so that other libraries can simply `require('hello-world')`:
 
    # hello-world.js
    exports.handle = function(req, res, next){
        res.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type: 'text/plain' });
        res.end('Hello World');
    };
    
    # app.js
    require('connect').createServer([
        { module: require('./hello-world') }
    ]);

If an exception was thrown, or is passesd to `next()`, middleware may define the `handleError()` method
in order to respond (or ignore) the exception. The `handleError()` method follows the same semantics as
`handle()`, for example:

    exports.handleError = function(err, req, res, next){
        // At any time we can call next() without
        // any arguments to eliminate exceptional status and
        // continue down the stack

        if (err.code === process.ENOENT) {
            // We dont want to deal with missing files
            // so pass the exception
            next(err);
        } else {
            // Respond with a message
            res.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type': 'text/plain' })
            res.end('shit! im broken');
        }
    };

Commit message:

Added bin/connect status command docs

docs/api.md, after:

connect(1) -- node server runner
========================================

## Synopsis

    connect [-H|--host ADDR] [-p|--port NUM]
            [-D|--daemonize] [-I|--include PATH]
            [-E|--env NAME] [-e|--eval CODE] [-C|--chdir PATH]
            [-c|--config PATH] [-P|--pidfile PATH]
            [-l|--logfile PATH] [-u|--user ID|NAME] [-g|--group ID|NAME]
            [-v|--verbose] [-K|--no-color] [-h|--help]
            start|stop|restart|status [PATH]

## Description

Connect is a duel purpose library, aiding in both rapid development, and deployment of node servers. Connect "middleware" can be stacked to create a robust application within minutes. The _connect_ executable supports launching of both regular `net.Server`, and `connect.Server` instances.
 
The connect executable supplies _init.d_ friendly _start_, _stop_, and _restart_ commands, and accept a direct path to the module meant to be run, otherwise defaults to trying both _app.js_ and _server.js_ in the current working directory.

Also to check the status of a process you may use the _status_ command, which
checks if the process is running.

## Executable Options

    -H, --host ADDR      Host address, defaults to INADDR_ANY
    -p, --port NUM       Port number, defaults to 3000
    -D, --daemonize      Daemonize the server process
    -I, --include PATH   Unshift the given path to require.paths
    -E, --env NAME       Set environment, defaults to "development"
    -e, --eval CODE      Evaluate the given string
    -C, --chdir PATH     Change to the given path
    -c, --config PATH    Load configuration module
    -P, --pidfile PATH   PID file, defaults to pids/connect.pid
    -l, --logfile PATH   Log file, defaults to logs/connect.log
    -u, --user ID|NAME   Change user with setuid()
    -g, --group ID|NAME  Change group with setgid()
    -v, --verbose        Display verbose output
    -K, --no-color       Suppress colored terminal output
    -h, --help           Display help information

## Middleware

Connect middleware is divided into two concepts. First we have _filters_ which perform an action and allow lower middleware to respond to the request, secondly we have _providers_ which are conceptual "end-points", responding to the request without continuing down the stack.


## Middleware Usage

Below is an example which shows usage of the _log_ filter bundled with Connect, as well as the _static_ provider.

The keys `filter` and `provider` are used only as short-cuts to bundled middleware, to utilize a custom module we can assign a module's exports to the `module` key.

    module.exports = require('./lib/connect').createServer([
        { filter: 'log' },
        { module: require('path/to/custom/middleware') },
        { provider: 'static', root: __dirname + '/public' }
    ]);

As shown above the module exports a `connect.Server` and does not call the `listen()` method directly. This allows other modules to "mount" this app, as well as allowing the _connect_ executable to control how the server is run.
 
If you prefer not to use _connect_, you can simply create a script executable by _node_, `require()` the app, then invoke `listen()`.

    #!/usr/bin/env node
    require('./app').listen();

## Middleware Authoring

Middleware is essentially just an object, responding to a `handle()` method, the example below illustrates how simple it is to create, and utilize custom middleware.
 
First we define the `handle()` method, which accepts three arguments, _req_, _res_, and _next_. 

    var helloWorld = {
        handle: function(req, res, next){
            res.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type: 'text/plain' });
            res.end('Hello World');
        }
    };

    require('connect').createServer([
        { module: helloWorld }
    ]);
    
The `next()` function passes control to the next middleware layer in the stack, and may optionally be passed an instanceof `Error`, at which time only `handleError()` methods may respond.
 
If you wish to pass an exception down the stack, you can invoke `next()` like below:
 
     if (someRequirementIsNotMet) {
         next(new Error('my requirement was not met!'));
     }

We can take this example further by "exporting" the `handle()` method, so that other libraries can simply `require('hello-world')`:
 
    # hello-world.js
    exports.handle = function(req, res, next){
        res.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type: 'text/plain' });
        res.end('Hello World');
    };
    
    # app.js
    require('connect').createServer([
        { module: require('./hello-world') }
    ]);

If an exception was thrown, or is passesd to `next()`, middleware may define the `handleError()` method
in order to respond (or ignore) the exception. The `handleError()` method follows the same semantics as
`handle()`, for example:

    exports.handleError = function(err, req, res, next){
        // At any time we can call next() without
        // any arguments to eliminate exceptional status and
        // continue down the stack

        if (err.code === process.ENOENT) {
            // We dont want to deal with missing files
            // so pass the exception
            next(err);
        } else {
            // Respond with a message
            res.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type': 'text/plain' })
            res.end('shit! im broken');
        }
    };
